Let's conclude this section by looking
at more advanced research systems
that try to answer much
more complex questions.
So consider the following definition
question, what is water spinach?
And I've given a potential long answer
to the question what is water spinach.
Could we generate answers to definition
questions like this if they, let's say
they didn't occur in a good place, on the
web we wanted to generate them ourselves?
Or take a medical question,
what is the efficacy of a particular
therapy for a particular disease?
We might want to give an answer and
this one is from
a particular paper in the PubMed
database that answers this question.
So difficult, hard to answer questions
that might involve summarizing one or
more documents.
There is in fact a competition on
answering such complex questions.
And I've given you some simplified
versions of some of those questions.
How is compost made and
used for gardening?
What causes train wrecks?
What can be done to prevent them?
What's the human toll in death or
injury of tropical storms in recent years?
So these are the kind of questions that
to answer them you'd want to read lot of
documents automatically, pull information
from them and summarize this information,
so it's a very difficult task.
Answering these harder questions
is the task of query focus
multiple document summarization.
And there are two standard algorithms for
this, we might call the bottom-up or
snippet style method.
It's just like we saw for
single document summarization.
We're going to find a set of
relevant documents first,
now we're going to extract informative
sentences from the documents and
then maybe we'll do some ordering and
modification.
So we're just going to grab sentences
from documents and mix them together.
The top down, or
information extraction method,
we're going to build specific answers for
different question types.
We'll build an answer for definition
questions and one for biography questions
and so on by extracting particular
information needed for those questions.
And we'll see both of these
in this little lecture.
So here is the snippet based method,
the bottom-up method for query
focused multi document summarization.
We're going to start, as again
by grabbing all the sentences from now
multiple documents, not just one document.
So we have a set of sentences and
we're going to modify them.
It's common to do sentence inculcation.
We'll take a sentence,
I'll show you in a second and
we'll simplify them in various ways.
We'll have lots of different
simplified versions of sentences.
So I've got lots of families
of clouds of sentences.
And we're going to apply the log
likelihood ratio test and
other methods of pulling good
sentences from this set of sentences.
We now have a set of extracted sentences,
the little black dots I've marked here.
And we're going to order those extracted
sentences, as we talked about for
single document summarization,
and we're going to modify them in various
ways to produce the realized sentences.
We often simplify sentences to get
rid of unimportant details that
would make the summary too long.
And then one of the most common
ways to do this involves parsing.
We parse the sentences and then we have
hand written rules based on the parse tree
that suggest which modifiers
are better to prune.
So for example, appositives
are the kind of thing you might prune.
So which an artist who was living
at the time in Philadelphia,
we can eliminate that or
attribution clause.
International observers said
Tuesday blah blah blah,
well we care more about what they
said that rebels agreed to talks.
That's an important fact then we can
delete maybe the attribution clause in
our summary.
Prepositional phrases, especially those
without named entities turn out to be
the kind of thing that we can delete and
keep a summary more concise.
So the increased to a sustainable number,
maybe a shorter summary
we just say increased.
And adverbials at the beginning like for
example or
on the other hand or as a matter of fact,
things that mattered in a longer document
that aren't going to be appropriate in
a small abstract or a small summary.
So the simplest method is taking,
writing various roles of this kind and
each of these papers gives you another,
some interesting sets of rules that
you can use to simplify the sentences.
So once we've done this,
we have our large set of sentences,
including the original sentence, and
the one with the appositive deleted, and
the ones with the PPs deleted, and so on.
We have a whole bunch of different
sentences, the original and
various shortened versions.
What do we do next?
Well now we'd like to select from
these very redundant set of sentences
just the ones to put in the summary,
and their redundant for two reasons,
they come from multiple documents that
might talk about the same event and
we've added these simplified sentences, so
there are all sorts of redundancies there.
One iterative method for
content selection given these redundant
sentences is called MMR,
Maximal Marginal Relevance.
And the idea is as follows.
We're going to iteratively or
greedily choose
the best sentence from our set of
sentences to insert in our summary so far.
And we want the best sentence
to satisfy two properties.
We want it to be maximally
relevant to the user's query.
So we might do something simple like just
ensure that is has high cosine
similarity to the query.
And we want it to be novel,
we want it to be minimally
redundant with the summary so far.
If we've just put in a sentence, we don't
want to put in a variant of that sentence,
that's mostly the same.
And we might measure that by just
measuring its cosine similarity to
the summary and choosing sentences
that have low cosine similarity.
So one version of MMR might be, we'll have
a lambda for weighing these two factors.
We want a sentence that has a high
similarity with the query and
which has a low, a subtract out,
the similarity of the sentence
with its most similar sentence
that's in the summary so far.
So pick sentences that don't look like
any of the sentences in the summary so
far but do look like the query.
And we'll add those
sentences in iteratively and
we'll stop by some criterion perhaps
when we've achieved our desired length.
Now we're going to want to combine
the intuitions of log likelihood ratio,
picking informative sentences and MMR,
choosing non-redundant sentences.
So one of the many ways we might combine
intuitions is to start by scoring every
sentence based on log likelihood ratio
using the words that either occurred
more than we expect by chance or
words that occurred in the query.
And now start by including the sentence
with the highest log likelihood ratio
score in the summary, and now start
iteratively adding into that summary other
sentences that are not redundant with
the sentences with the summary so far.
And when we had single document
summaries we could pick document order
as our ordering for
the sentences in the summary.
That's a little harder to do if our
sentences come from multiple documents.
So there's various things we can do,
we can if we're summarizing news,
we can do chronological ordering.
We can look at the date that
the article came out and
order the sentences in
order of actual time.
We can choose coherence based ordering.
We can put sentences near each other,
if they have similar meaning.
So we can look at the cosine
between the two sentences and
sentences that have a high cosine
we could put next to each other.
Or perhaps, we could look at
the entities discussed by the sentences,
in two sentences, talk about the same
entity we can put them near each other.
Or we can even do some kind of fancy
method where we look at the source
documents and look at the actual semantic
topics that happen in the documents.
And we could order those,
they can order any and
apply that to our output sentences.
So various ways we can
do information ordering.
So that's the bottom-up or
snippet based approach to doing query
focused, multi document summarization.
We grab a whole bunch of sentences,
we rank them by log likelihood ratio and
MMR informer summary,
that way we order them by some method.
The alternative method,
the information extraction method,
is used when we have a particular
kind of question that we want to,
we know what kind of things we
expect to put in the answer.
So we know, for example, that a good
biography contains a birth and death,
maybe why they're famous, their education,
their nationality, and so on.
Whereas a good definition contains what
is called a genus or hypernym sentence.
The Hajj is, what is it?
It's a type of ritual.
Or a medical answer about a drug's use.
We want to talk about a problem,
a medical condition, we want to talk about
what is this intervention, this drug or
procedure, and what's the outcome?
So knowing these types of questions,
we can know the types of things we
might want to see in the answer.
So we could then build a little detector,
let's say that finds genus
sentences in the documents.
Find me a genus sentence,
find me a species sentence,
find the dates this person was born or
died or was educated.
Find where they went to school,
or if we're talking about the drug,
who was the study run on?
What is the actual intervention and so on.
So we can build classifiers to
extract these kind of information.
So let's look at an example of
system from Blair-Goldensohn
that does this kind of complex question
answering for definition questions.
We have a question, what is the Hajj?
And we specify, let's say, that we're
going to look at 20 documents to pull our
summary out and we want a summary
of length, eight sentences long.
So we're going to extract all of our
documents, we're going whole out,
we say this is a definition question so
we know we need a genus species sentence.
So we run our classifier and
find all of our genus species
sentences in all of these documents.
And now we find the other sentences and
we're going to, for each of the pieces of
information that we need,
build little clusters of sentences and
use your log likelihood equal ratio and
MMR and other approaches to decide which
sentence to pick and then we're going
to paste these into a definition.
So we've talked about two methods for
answering these complex,
difficult questions that require
looking at multiple documents.
We talked about the bottom-up,
snippet based method,
that uses log likelihood ratio and
MMR to choose
just the right non redundant informative
sentences from lots of documents.
We've talked about an information
extraction style method
in which we build separate templates for
each question type and pull out particular
attributes that are important, things
to put in the answer for that question.
Of course research on this harder
questions that require looking at multiple
documents is really just beginning and
this is going to be an important and
exciting area for us to follow in the
future to see where their research goes.